# HMRC Frontend Sandbox

Welcome to the HMRC Frontend Sandbox, this application contains all the required foundations and boiler plate for any HMRC frontend application. It has been created using `scaffolds`, an internally developed [templating solution](https://github.com/hmrc/hmrc-frontend-scaffold.g8) that enables Scrum Teams to quickly set up all the required boiler plate to create a new web frontend so that teams can focus on the actual business problem they need to solve.

This application follows a standard [`MVC pattern`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller), with its main components located here:

- [Models](https://github.com/opencastsoftware/hmrc-frontend-sandbox/tree/master/app/models)
- [Views](https://github.com/opencastsoftware/hmrc-frontend-sandbox/tree/master/app/views)
- [Controllers](https://github.com/opencastsoftware/hmrc-frontend-sandbox/tree/master/app/controllers)

## How to run it

You will need the Java JDK installed, we recommend you manage this with an SDK Manager like [SDKMan](https://sdkman.io/). Install SDKMan (instructions [here](https://sdkman.io/install)) and once installed, you will be able to install java SDK through it (instructions [here](https://sdkman.io/usage)). 

After that, you will be able to select with version of JDK you want to use (for example, 1.8). Remember you will have to point your `JAVA_HOME` to use `SDKMan`, for example:

```
export JAVA_HOME="/Users/yourUserName/.sdkman/candidates/java/current"
```

You will also need a local instance of mongoDB running locally in port `27017`. If you have never installed mongoDB, you can easily do it by following [this guide](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-os-x/) (it is recommended to have mongoDB as a service running in the background).

Once you have mongoDB installed, you can install a mongoDB GUI to be able to see and manage the data generated by your sandbox application. [Robo 3T](https://robomongo.org/) is a good GUI and very simple to use.

To run the application, execute `sbt run` and it will start it in port `9335`. [This](http://localhost:9335/hmrc-frontend-sandbox/) will be the root of your site (index)

## Routes
You can see the catalogue of accessible pages on your site via your [`routes`](./conf/app.routes) file. Every new page you create will require its associated `route` here.

## Navigation
Navigation behaviour is abstracted out from the `controller` and injected into it as an external dependency. Typically, the [`navigator`](./app/navigation/Navigator.scala) exposes a `nextPage` method that will encapsulate all behaviour related for navigation purposes.

## Navigation modes
There are two modes of navigation, `NormalMode` and `CheckMode`. Typically, you will use `NormalMode` for navigation that will progress you through your user journey (i.e. go forward, default navigation) and `CheckMode` for navigation that will go back into a specific page to modify an input. Have a look at the `navigator` tests [here](./test/navigation/NavigatorSpec.scala) to get a deeper understanding on how it works.

## Check your answers pages
These pages will typically appear at the end of a given section within your journey and it will display all the answers given for the section. It offers the user the possibility of changing any of the answers given (have a look at the navigation [here](./app/controllers/CheckYourAnswersController.scala#L48), note that it is done in `CheckMode`)

## What are controller "Actions"?

For each of the methods within a `controller` we can run actions that will be executed before the method body is, the most basic example can be found within the [Index Controller](https://github.com/opencastsoftware/hmrc-frontend-sandbox/blob/master/app/controllers/IndexController.scala#L32), you can see that we run an `identify` action (ie, ensure the user is authenticated) before returning the [Index View](https://github.com/opencastsoftware/hmrc-frontend-sandbox/blob/master/app/views/IndexView.scala.html). 
`Action` is an interface that Play exposes that allows us to encapsulate common behaviour. They are similar in concept to Scala's `Function` type and we chain Actions together using the `andThen` method.

## How can I add authentication?

It is worth noting that `authentication actions` have been stubbed as we have no way of reaching HMRC's auth service. You can see the stubbed `IdentifierAction` [here](https://github.com/opencastsoftware/hmrc-frontend-sandbox/blob/master/app/controllers/actions/IdentifierAction.scala#L45). Notice that all related tests in [`AuthActionSpec`](https://github.com/opencastsoftware/hmrc-frontend-sandbox/blob/master/test/controllers/actions/AuthActionSpec.scala) are ignored since the behaviour described in them is commented out.

## Where are the tests?

The application has been `test driven` and for every file containing production code, there should be an associated `Spec` file containing all its tests. You can see all the tests [here](./test).

You can run all tests by running `sbt test`. Alternatively, if you load `sbt` and once it is loaded you run `~testQuick` it will monitor your files and run its associated tests every time you make a change in any file. This functionality is very handy when test driving your application.

## Content and Languages

The application supports both English and Welsh. All content displayed within any views will always be fed through a `messages file` located [here (for English language)](https://github.com/opencastsoftware/hmrc-frontend-sandbox/blob/master/conf/messages.en) and [here (for Welsh language)](https://github.com/opencastsoftware/hmrc-frontend-sandbox/blob/master/conf/messages.cy)

The switch of languages is executed via the Play! `LanguageController`. You can see where this code is executed [here](./app/views/templates/Layout.scala.html#L66)

## User Answers

[`UserAnswers`](./app/models/UserAnswers.scala) is the model that we use to represent and store the data gathered by the site as the user progresses through the journey. At its core, the model can be seen as a JSON container that will hold all data gathered with two more properties to make it unique to the user:

- `id` property that is used to store the unique identifier of the user (plase note that as mentioned above, the id for the user has been stubbed and it will always be `test`, have another look [here](https://github.com/opencastsoftware/hmrc-frontend-sandbox/blob/master/app/controllers/actions/IdentifierAction.scala#L45))
- `data` which can be seen as a container for the `JSON` object that will contain all journey data.
- `lastUpdated`

Within mongoDB, user answers will look something like this:

```
{
    "_id" : "test",
    "data" : {
        "firstNumber" : 10,
        "secondNumber" : 20
    },
    "lastUpdated" : ISODate("2022-01-13T10:04:29.777Z")
}

```

Please note that `firstNumber` and `secondNumber` represent the journey [pages](./app/pages) that the user goes through. For example, you can see the `JSON` path for the `First Number` page together with its name [here](./app/pages/FirstNumberPage.scala).


## Site parameters (configuration)

You can see all site configuration parameters within the [`application.conf`](./conf/application.conf).

